AD NETWORK PLATFORM
Project Architecture, Development Pipeline & Final Roadmap
1.  Project Overview
What Is This Project?
This project is a fully custom-built Ad Network Platform — a system that connects website publishers (people who own websites) with advertisers who want to display ads and pay per click. Think of it as your own version of Google AdSense, but built entirely from scratch, giving you full control over every feature, rule, and revenue decision.
The Main Goal
The system has three main goals:
Allow publishers to sign up, place ads on their websites, and earn money from every valid click.
Give administrators complete control over campaigns, payments, fraud detection, and analytics.
Handle large traffic volumes reliably — starting at 100,000+ clicks per day, with the ability to scale to 1 million clicks per day.
Who Will Use This System?
User Type
What They Do
Publisher
Registers, creates ad units, places them on their website, tracks earnings, and requests withdrawals.
Administrator
Manages publishers, creates ad campaigns, sets pricing, reviews fraud alerts, approves withdrawals, and monitors the entire platform.
2.  System Architecture
How the System Works — Big Picture
The platform is built in two main parts that work together seamlessly:
The Frontend (Publisher & Admin Panels) — the visual interface that users see and interact with in their browser.
The Backend (Server & Database) — the engine running behind the scenes, handling all logic, data storage, fraud checks, and financial calculations.
System Flow — Step by Step
Here is what happens from the moment a visitor clicks an ad on a publisher's website:
1
A visitor clicks an ad on a publisher's website.
2
The click is instantly sent to our server and recorded in under 50 milliseconds.
3
The click is placed into a queue (a waiting line) for background processing.
4
Our fraud detection system checks if the click is real or fake.
5
If valid: the publisher's earnings are calculated and added to their balance.
6
If invalid (bot, spam, repeat click): the click is marked as fraudulent and ignored.
7
The visitor is redirected to the advertiser's destination URL.
8
All data is updated in the publisher's dashboard in real time.
Main Components of the System
Ad Server
The heart of the platform. Receives clicks, selects the right ad to show based on rotation rules, and redirects the visitor. Must respond in under 50 milliseconds.
Publisher Panel
A web dashboard where publishers register, generate their ad code, view their stats, and request withdrawals.
Admin Panel
A private dashboard for you (the owner) to manage everything: publishers, campaigns, fraud, pricing, and payments.
Fraud Detection Engine
An intelligent system that uses both rule-based checks and machine learning (AI) to identify and block fake clicks automatically.
CPC Pricing Engine
A rules-based system that sets the cost per click based on country, device type, and publisher agreements.
Earnings Calculator
Automatically calculates how much each publisher has earned based on their valid clicks and their agreed revenue share.
Queue & Background Workers
A system that handles heavy tasks (like fraud checks and earnings updates) in the background, so the main server stays fast.
Withdrawal System
Allows publishers to request payments, and allows the admin to approve, reject, or mark them as paid.
3.  Technology Stack
Below is every technology used to build this platform, with a simple explanation of what it does and why it was chosen.
Technology
Purpose & Reason
Next.js (Frontend)
The technology used to build the publisher and admin panels. It creates fast, modern web pages that work well on any device.
Python FastAPI (Backend)
The main server engine. Handles all incoming requests, business logic, and data processing. Chosen for its speed and simplicity.
MongoDB (Database)
Stores all data: clicks, publishers, campaigns, earnings, and logs. Ideal for storing millions of event records efficiently.
Redis (Cache)
A high-speed memory layer that stores frequently accessed data so the system doesn't need to query the database every time. Makes the platform 10x faster.
RabbitMQ (Queue)
A message queue that handles background tasks. When a click happens, it is placed in the queue so the main server can respond instantly without waiting.
Scikit-learn / Isolation Forest (ML)
The machine learning model used for fraud detection. It learns normal click patterns and flags anything that looks unusual — without needing pre-labeled data.
JWT (Authentication)
A secure token system used to verify who is logged in. When a publisher logs in, they receive a token that proves their identity for all future requests.
bcrypt (Security)
A password protection tool. Passwords are never stored as plain text — they are converted into a secure encrypted format before saving.
Chart.js (Analytics)
Used to display beautiful charts and graphs in the admin and publisher dashboards — showing click trends, earnings, and performance data.
MaxMind GeoIP (Location)
A free tool that identifies the country and location of each click based on its IP address. Used for pricing, analytics, and fraud checks.
Docker (Containers)
Packages the entire application into portable containers, making it easy to deploy, update, and manage on any server.
Nginx (Web Server)
Acts as the front door of the server. Routes incoming traffic to the correct service and handles HTTPS security certificates.
Hostinger KVM VPS
The cloud server where the entire system is hosted. A dedicated virtual private server that gives full control over the environment.
Let's Encrypt / HTTPS
Provides a free SSL certificate so all data between users and the server is encrypted and secure.
4.  Development Pipeline
This section explains the step-by-step process of building the platform from scratch to a fully deployed product. Think of it as the construction plan for the system.
Stage 1
Environment Setup
Install and configure all tools: Python, Node.js, Docker, MongoDB, Redis, RabbitMQ. Set up the project folder structure and connect all services together.
Stage 2
Core Backend Development
Build the server foundation: database connection, configuration files, API routing, and the main application entry point.
Stage 3
Authentication System
Implement publisher registration and login. Add password hashing and JWT token generation so that all API endpoints are secure.
Stage 4
Publisher & Data Models
Define the data structure for publishers (name, email, balance, status, etc.) and set up the MongoDB database collections.
Stage 5
Ad Server & Click Tracking
Build the most critical component: the click tracking endpoint. Must log the click, send it to the queue, and redirect the visitor in under 50ms.
Stage 6
Ad Rotation Engine
Implement the weighted ad rotation system so that campaigns are shown according to the percentages configured by the admin.
Stage 7
Fraud Detection System
Build rule-based fraud checks first (same IP, bots, data center IPs). Then train and integrate the Isolation Forest machine learning model.
Stage 8
CPC & Earnings Engine
Implement the pricing rules (country-based, device-based CPC) and the earnings calculator that applies the publisher's revenue share.
Stage 9
Background Queue Workers
Set up RabbitMQ workers using Celery to process fraud detection and earnings updates asynchronously in the background.
Stage 10
Admin Panel API
Build all admin-facing API endpoints: publisher management, campaign management, click logs, fraud review, and withdrawal approval.
Stage 11
Publisher Panel API
Build all publisher-facing API endpoints: dashboard stats, reports, ad unit generator, and withdrawal request system.
Stage 12
Frontend Development
Build all Next.js pages for both the publisher panel and admin panel, connecting each page to its corresponding API.
Stage 13
Caching Layer
Implement Redis caching for dashboard statistics, rate limiting, and session management to ensure fast response times.
Stage 14
Testing & Bug Fixing
Test all features: authentication, click tracking accuracy, fraud detection accuracy, earnings calculations, and withdrawal flows.
Stage 15
Deployment
Deploy the complete system to Hostinger KVM VPS using Docker Compose. Configure Nginx and activate HTTPS with Let's Encrypt.
5.  Final Project Roadmap
The project is organized into 11 clear phases. Each phase builds on the previous one. Below is a complete milestone-based roadmap from first line of code to live deployment.
PHASE 1  Core Backend Setup
Objective: Build the foundation of the entire system. Nothing else can be built without this phase being complete.
Step 1  Project Setup & Infrastructure
• Install and configure FastAPI (Python web server)
• Connect MongoDB database for data storage
• Set up Redis for caching and rate limiting
• Set up RabbitMQ for background task queuing
• Configure Docker to containerize all services
• Create the core files: config.py, database.py, main.py
Step 2  Publisher Authentication System
• Build the registration endpoint (sign up with email & password)
• Build the login endpoint with secure JWT token generation
• Implement bcrypt password hashing (passwords never stored as plain text)
• Protect all publisher API routes with JWT authentication
Step 3  Publisher Data Model
• Define all publisher fields in MongoDB: ID, name, email, password, website, status, revenue share, balance, join date
• Set up proper database indexes for fast queries
PHASE 2  Publisher Panel
Objective: Give publishers a working dashboard to view their performance and generate their ad code.
Step 4  Publisher Dashboard API
• Build the /publisher/dashboard endpoint returning: today's clicks, today's earnings, total clicks, total earnings, current balance
• Build the /publisher/stats and /publisher/reports endpoints for detailed analytics
Step 5  Ad Unit Generator
• Allow publishers to create ad units (selecting website, ad format)
• Automatically generate a unique JavaScript embed code for each ad unit
• Example output: <script src="network.com/ad.js?pub=123&unit=456"></script>
PHASE 3  Ad Server
Objective: Build the most performance-critical part of the system — the click tracking and ad rotation engine.
Step 6  Click Tracking API
• Build the /click endpoint that receives all incoming clicks
• Log the click instantly with full metadata (IP, country, device, browser, referrer, timestamp)
• Push the click to RabbitMQ queue for background processing
• Redirect the visitor to the destination URL
• Target response speed: under 50 milliseconds
Step 7  Ad Rotation Engine
• Allow admin to assign rotation weights to each campaign (e.g. Ad1 = 50%, Ad2 = 30%, Ad3 = 20%)
• Implement weighted random selection so ads are served according to configured percentages
• Build the ad_server.py service
PHASE 4  Fraud Detection
Objective: Protect the network from fake clicks and bots using both rule-based logic and machine learning.
Step 8  Rule-Based Fraud Checks
• Block the same IP clicking more than N times per minute
• Detect and block known bot user agents
• Block clicks from known data center IP ranges (AWS, Google Cloud, Azure, DigitalOcean)
• Detect and block auto-refresh click fraud
Step 9  Machine Learning Fraud Model
• Use Isolation Forest algorithm from Scikit-learn (no labeled data needed)
• Train the model on click features: frequency, time between clicks, country, device, referrer
• Assign a fraud score to every click
• Build train_pipeline.py and feature_extractor.py
PHASE 5  CPC Pricing System
Objective: Implement flexible, rules-based pricing so different clicks are worth different amounts depending on country and device.
Step 10  CPC Engine
• Set global default CPC (cost per click)
• Set country-specific CPC (example: US = $0.10, Pakistan = $0.03)
• Set device-specific CPC overrides
• Allow admin to set custom CPC per individual publisher
• Build cpc_engine.py service
PHASE 6  Traffic Routing Engine
Objective: Build a professional traffic routing engine that intelligently distributes clicks based on GEO, device, OS, and campaign rules — similar to systems used by Adsterra and PropellerAds.
Step 11A  Create Traffic Router Service
• Build services/traffic_router.py as the core decision engine
• Responsibilities: campaign selection, GEO routing, device routing, landing page selection, redirect decision
• Updated services structure:
services/
ad_server.py
traffic_router.py
campaign_service.py
cpc_engine.py
fraud_service.py
Step 11B  Campaign Manager Upgrade with Routing Tables
Campaign Model:
• campaign_id, name, status, publisher_website_id (optional)
• direct_redirect_mode (bypass landing page)
• referrer_suppression (protect traffic sources)
• default_offer_url, created_at
GEO Routing Table (geo_rules):
• Fields: country_code, offer_url, campaign_id, priority
• Example: US → Offer A, UK → Offer B, CA → Offer C
Device Routing Table (device_rules):
• Fields: device_type, os, lander_url, offer_url, campaign_id, priority
• Example: Windows → Lander A, Android → Lander B, MacOS → Lander C
Global Settings:
• global_default_offer_url (fallback when no campaign assigned)
Website-Specific Campaigns:
• Publisher website model: website_id, publisher_id, domain, assigned_campaign_id
• Example: example.com → Campaign A, blogsite.net → Campaign B
Step 11C  Traffic Routing Logic & Flow
Core Routing Function:
def route_click(click_data):
campaign = get_campaign(click_data.website)
geo_offer = apply_geo_rules()
device_offer = apply_device_rules()
final_destination = select_lander_or_offer()
return final_destination
Complete Traffic Flow:
1. Click Received
2. Fraud Detection
3. Identify Publisher
4. Identify Website
5. Check Website Campaign (if none → Use Global Campaign)
6. Apply GEO Rules
7. Apply Device / OS Rules
8. Check Direct Redirect Mode
9. Select Landing Page or Direct Offer
10. Redirect to Final Destination
GEO Routing Logic:
• If visitor country matches GEO rule → redirect to that offer
• Else → redirect to default offer
Device Routing:
• Parse user-agent to determine device_type, operating_system, browser
• Use ua-parser library
• Route based on OS: Windows → Lander A, Android → Lander B, etc.
Direct Redirect Mode:
• If enabled: Click → Fraud Check → Valid → Direct redirect to Offer URL
• If disabled: Click → Fraud Check → Select Lander → Lander → Offer
Referrer Suppression:
• If enabled: Use Referrer-Policy: no-referrer header
• Purpose: Protect publisher traffic sources from being tracked
Click Endpoint Integration:
• Route: /click?pub=123
• Flow: click_router → fraud_service → traffic_router → redirect
PHASE 7  Earnings System
Objective: Automatically calculate and record how much each publisher earns from every valid click.
Step 12  Earnings Calculator
• Formula: Publisher Earnings = CPC × Revenue Share Percentage
• Example: $0.05 CPC × 80% revenue share = $0.04 earned per click
• Update publisher balance in real time after each valid click
• Build earnings_service.py
PHASE 8  Admin Panel
Objective: Give the administrator full visibility and control over the entire platform.
Step 12  Admin Dashboard & Analytics
• Display platform-wide stats: total clicks, valid clicks, invalid clicks, total publishers
• Show top performing countries and top earning publishers
• Visualize data with interactive charts (Chart.js)
Step 13  Publisher Management
• View all registered publishers and their status
• Approve or suspend publisher accounts
• Set custom CPC rates per publisher
• Manually adjust publisher balances
Step 14  Campaign Management
• Create new ad campaigns with destination URLs
• Set country targeting for each campaign
• Configure ad rotation weights
• Pause or activate campaigns at any time
PHASE 9  Withdrawal System
Objective: Allow publishers to request payments and give the admin full control over approvals.
Step 15  Publisher Withdrawal Request
• Publisher submits a withdrawal request with: amount, payment method, and wallet/account details
• System validates that the requested amount does not exceed current balance
Step 16  Admin Approval System
• Admin reviews pending withdrawal requests
• Admin can approve, reject, or mark as paid
• Admin can add a transaction ID when payment is completed
• Publisher is notified of the status change
PHASE 10  Frontend (Next.js)
Objective: Build all user-facing web pages for both the publisher and admin panels.
Step 17  Publisher Panel Pages
• Dashboard page: earnings overview, click stats, balance
• Reports page: detailed click logs and earnings history
• Ad Units page: create and manage ad units, copy embed code
• Withdrawals page: request payments, view payment history
Step 18  Admin Panel Pages
• Dashboard page: platform-wide stats and charts
• Publishers page: list and manage all publisher accounts
• Campaigns page: create and manage ad campaigns
• Click Logs page: browse and filter all click records
• Fraud page: review flagged clicks and fraud analytics
• Withdrawals page: approve or reject payment requests
Colors for the frontend :i need these colours in the front end designing the frontend should be modern , professional and intuitive and Like having 3d world class animations . Colours schemas : #00FFD4 #5465FF #D2DDFF #050208:
PHASE 11  Performance & Scaling
Objective: Optimize the system to handle 100,000 to 1,000,000 clicks per day reliably.
Step 19  Redis Caching
• Cache frequently accessed dashboard stats so they load instantly
• Implement IP-based rate limiting (example: max 100 requests per minute per IP)
• Store publisher sessions in Redis for fast authentication
Step 20  Async Background Processing (RabbitMQ + Celery)
• Move fraud detection to background workers so it does not slow down click processing
• Move earnings updates to background workers
• Move analytics calculations to background workers
• System can now handle massive traffic without slowing down
PHASE 11  Deployment
Objective: Launch the fully built system on a live server so it is accessible on the internet.
Step 21  Server Setup & Go Live
• Provision Hostinger KVM VPS with Ubuntu Linux
• Install Docker and Docker Compose on the server
• Configure Nginx as a reverse proxy to route all traffic
• Activate HTTPS with a free Let's Encrypt SSL certificate
• Deploy all services using docker-compose (FastAPI, MongoDB, Redis, RabbitMQ, Next.js, Celery workers)
• Run final tests in production environment
• System is live and ready to accept publishers and traffic
Final System Capabilities
Capability
Specification
Click Processing Speed
Under 50 milliseconds per click
Daily Traffic Capacity
100,000+ clicks/day (standard), up to 1,000,000+ (optimized)
Fraud Detection
Rule-based + Machine Learning (Isolation Forest)
Pricing System
Global, country-level, and device-level CPC rules
Publisher Revenue
Automated earnings calculation with configurable revenue share
Security
HTTPS, JWT, bcrypt, rate limiting, input validation
Analytics
Real-time charts for clicks, earnings, countries, and fraud
Scalability
Async queue workers allow horizontal scaling at any time
Things also neededDesign a data reporting and record management system for an advertising platform that allows the Admin to manage and export traffic and financial records of publishers and their websites.
The system must generate CSV reports and optionally include graph charts for better data visualization.
1. CSV Report Generation
The system should be capable of generating downloadable CSV reports for three levels of data:
Global Data – Overall platform statistics.
Publisher Data – Aggregated statistics for each publisher.
Website-Specific Data – Detailed data for each website owned by a publisher.
Each report should include metrics such as:
Total traffic
Total clicks
Valid clicks
Invalid clicks
Earnings
Withdrawal history
Date and time of withdrawals
Country-wise traffic
Device type (Windows, Linux, Mac, Android, etc.)
Any other relevant analytics data
Optionally, the system should display graph charts at the end of reports for visual analysis.
2. Admin Panel – Record Management
The Admin Panel must provide a History / Records page that allows the admin to access and manage all publisher data stored in the MongoDB database.
From this page, the admin should be able to:
View all registered publishers in a structured table format (rows and columns).
Access the full activity logs for each publisher.
Download records as CSV files directly from the admin panel.
Each publisher row should include:
Publisher name
Website(s)
Traffic data
Earnings data
Action buttons
3. Publisher Record Actions
Next to each publisher record, the admin must have two control buttons:
Download Button
Allows the admin to download the entire record of that publisher in CSV format.
Delete Button (Trash Icon)
When clicked, the system must display a confirmation warning message:
"Are you sure you want to delete this publisher record from the database?"
If the admin confirms, the system immediately deletes all associated records for that publisher from the database.
4. Date Filtering System
The Records/History page must include a date filter dropdown that allows the admin to filter, download, or delete records based on time range.
Available options:
Last 7 days
Last 20 days
Last 30 days
Last 1 year
Custom input where the admin can manually enter the number of days.
5. Publisher Record Structure
The history page should organize publisher records using an expandable dropdown system.
Each publisher should appear as:
Publisher 1
Publisher 2
Publisher 3
…and so on.
When the admin clicks on a publisher:
A dropdown expands showing all traffic, clicks, earnings, and other activity data related to that publisher and their websites.
The admin can then download or delete records directly from that expanded section.
Clicking the publisher again should collapse the dropdown.
6. Data Organization
The system must ensure that:
Each publisher's websites maintain separate traffic and analytics records.
Data is properly stored in MongoDB collections.
Admin can easily access, export, and manage all stored data through the admin panel interface
End of Document
Prepared by AI Solutions Architect  |  Confidential & Proprietary